# [Chapter 10: Concurrency with Processes, Threads, and Coroutines](https://pymotw.com/3/concurrency.html)

## [10.2 signal — Asynchronous System Events](https://pymotw.com/3/signal/index.html)

**Purpose:**	Asynchronous system events

Signals are an operating system feature that provide a means of notifying a program of an event, and having it handled asynchronously. They can be generated by the system itself, or sent from one process to another. Since signals interrupt the regular flow of the program, it is possible that some operations (especially I/O) may produce errors if a signal is received in the middle.

Signals are identified by integers and are defined in the operating system C headers. Python exposes the signals appropriate for the platform as symbols in the signal module. The examples in this section use SIGINT and SIGUSR1. Both are typically defined for all Unix and Unix-like systems.

Note

Programming with Unix signal handlers is a non-trivial endeavor. This is an introduction, and does not include all of the details needed to use signals successfully on every platform. There is some degree of standardization across versions of Unix, but there is also some variation, so consult the operating system documentation if you run into trouble.

### 10.2.1 Receiving Signals

As with other forms of event-based programming, signals are received by establishing a callback function, called a signal handler, that is invoked when the signal occurs. The arguments to the signal handler are the signal number and the stack frame from the point in the program that was interrupted by the signal.

```
# signal_signal.py
import signal
import os
import time


def receive_signal(signum, stack):
    print("Received:", signum)


# Register signal handlers
signal.signal(signal.SIGUSR1, receive_signal)
signal.signal(signal.SIGUSR2, receive_signal)

# Print the process ID so it can be used with 'kill'
# to send this program signals.
print("My PID is:", os.getpid())

while True:
    print("Waiting...")
    time.sleep(3)
```

This example script loops indefinitely, pausing for a few seconds each time. When a signal comes in, the sleep() call is interrupted and the signal handler receive_signal prints the signal number. After the signal handler returns, the loop continues.

Send signals to the running program using os.kill() or the Unix command line program kill.

```
$ python3 signal_signal.py
My PID is: 27086
Waiting...
Waiting...
Waiting...
Waiting...
Waiting...
Waiting...
Waiting...
Waiting...
Received: 10
Received: 12
Traceback (most recent call last):
  File "signal_signal.py", line 21, in <module>
    time.sleep(3)
KeyboardInterrupt
```

The previous output was produced by running signal_signal.py in one window, then in another window running:

```
$ pid=27086
$ kill -USR1 $pid
$ kill -USR2 $pid
$ kill -INT $pid
```